Certainly! Here is the content from the page, set out as requested:

---

**Introduction**

Artificial intelligence (AI) is increasingly applied across all sectors utilizing information technology and is expected to be one of the main economic drivers. A consequence of this trend is that certain applications can give rise to societal challenges over the coming years.

This document intends to help organizations responsibly perform their role with respect to AI systems (e.g. to use, develop, monitor or provide products or services that utilize AI). AI potentially raises specific considerations such as:

— The use of AI for automatic decision-making, sometimes in a non-transparent and non-explainable way, can require specific management beyond the management of classical IT systems.

— The use of data analysis, insight and machine learning, rather than human-coded logic to design systems, both increases the application opportunities for AI systems and changes the way that such systems are developed, justified and deployed.

— AI systems that perform continuous learning change their behaviour during use. They require special consideration to ensure their responsible use continues with changing behaviour.

This document provides requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually improving an AI management system within the context of an organization. Organizations are expected to focus their application of requirements on features that are unique to AI. Certain features of AI, such as the ability to continuously learn and improve or a lack of transparency or explainability, can warrant different safeguards if they raise additional concerns compared to how the task would traditionally be performed. The adoption of an AI management system to extend the existing management structures is a strategic decision for an organization.

The organization’s needs and objectives, processes, size and structure as well as the expectations of various interested parties influence the establishment and implementation of the AI management system. Another set of factors that influence the establishment and implementation of the AI management system are the many use cases for AI and the need to strike the appropriate balance between governance mechanisms and innovation. Organizations can elect to apply these requirements using a risk-based approach to ensure that the appropriate level of control is applied for the particular AI use cases, services or products within the organization’s scope. All these influencing factors are expected to change and be reviewed from time to time.

The AI management system should be integrated with the organization’s processes and overall management structure. Specific issues related to AI should be considered in the design of processes, information systems and controls. Crucial examples of such management processes are:

— determination of organizational objectives, involvement of interested parties and organizational policy;

— management of risks and opportunities;

— processes for the management of concerns related to the trustworthiness of AI systems such as security, safety, fairness, transparency, data quality and quality of AI systems throughout their life cycle;

— processes for the management of suppliers, partners and third parties that provide or develop AI systems for the organization.

This document provides guidelines for the deployment of applicable controls to support such processes.

This document avoids specific guidance on management processes. The organization can combine generally accepted frameworks, other International Standards and its own experience to implement crucial processes such as risk management, life cycle management and data quality management which are appropriate for the specific AI use cases, products or services within the scope.

---

[No clause/annex numbers or headings are present on this page other than "Introduction". No NOTE is present.]