3.25  
data quality  
characteristic of data that the data meet the organization’s data requirements for a specific context  

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC 5259-1:—1), 3.4]  

3.26  
statement of applicability  
documentation of all necessary controls (3.23) and justification for inclusion or exclusion of controls  

Note 1 to entry: Organizations may not require all controls listed in Annex A or may even exceed the list in Annex A with additional controls established by the organization itself.  

Note 2 to entry: All identified risks shall be documented by the organization according to the requirements of this document. All identified risks and the risk management measures (controls) established to address them shall be reflected in the statement of applicability.  

4 Context of the organization  

4.1 Understanding the organization and its context  

The organization shall determine external and internal issues that are relevant to its purpose and that affect its ability to achieve the intended result(s) of its AI management system.  

The organization shall determine whether climate change is a relevant issue.  

The organization shall consider the intended purpose of the AI system(s) that are developed, provided or used by the organization. The organization shall determine its roles with respect to these AI systems.  

NOTE 1 To understand the organization and its context, it can be helpful for the organization to determine its role relative to the AI system. These roles can include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:  

— AI providers, including AI platform providers or AI product or service providers;  
— AI producers, including AI developers, AI designers, AI operators, AI testers and evaluators, AI deployers, AI human factor professionals, domain experts, AI impact assessors, procurers, AI governance and oversight professionals;  
— AI customers, including AI users;  
— AI partners, including AI system integrators and data providers;  
— AI subjects, including data subjects and other subjects;  
— relevant authorities, including policymakers and regulators.  

A detailed description of these roles is provided by ISO/IEC 22989. Furthermore, the types of roles and their relationship to the AI system life cycle are also described in the NIST AI risk management framework.[29] The organization’s roles can determine the applicability and extent of applicability of the requirements and controls in this document.  

NOTE 2 External and internal issues to be addressed under this clause can vary according to the organization’s roles and jurisdiction and their impact on its ability to achieve the intended outcome(s) of its AI management system. These can include, but are not limited to:  

a) external context related considerations such as:  
 1) applicable legal requirements, including prohibited uses of AI;  
 2) policies, guidelines and decisions from regulators that have an impact on the interpretation or enforcement of legal requirements in the development and use of AI systems;  

1) Under preparation. Stage at the time of publication ISO/IEC DIS 5259-1:2023.  

© ISO/IEC 2023 – All rights reserved