BS ISO/IEC 42001:2023  
ISO/IEC 42001:2023(E)

3) incentives or consequences associated with the intended purpose and the use of AI systems;
4) culture, traditions, values, norms and ethics with respect to development and use of AI;
5) competitive landscape and trends for new products and services using AI systems;

b) internal context related considerations such as:
1) organizational context, governance, objectives (see 6.2), policies and procedures;
2) contractual obligations;
3) intended purpose of the AI system to be developed or used.

NOTE 3 Role determination can be formed by obligations related to categories of data the organization processes (e.g. personally identifiable information (PII) processor or PII controller when processing PII). See ISO/IEC 29100 for PII and related roles. Roles can also be informed by legal requirements specific to AI systems.

4.2 Understanding the needs and expectations of interested parties

The organization shall determine:
— the interested parties that are relevant to the AI management system;
— the relevant requirements of these interested parties;
— which of these requirements will be addressed through the AI management system.

NOTE Relevant interested parties can have requirements related to climate change.

4.3 Determining the scope of the AI management system

The organization shall determine the boundaries and applicability of the AI management system to establish its scope.

When determining this scope, the organization shall consider:
— the external and internal issues referred to in 4.1;
— the requirements referred to in 4.2.

The scope shall be available as documented information.

The scope of the AI management system shall determine the organization’s activities with respect to this document’s requirements on the AI management system, leadership, planning, support, operation, performance, evaluation, improvement, controls and objectives.

4.4 AI management system

The organization shall establish, implement, maintain, continually improve and document an AI management system, including the processes needed and their interactions, in accordance with the requirements of this document.

6 © ISO/IEC 2023 – All rights reserved