BS ISO/IEC 42001:2023  
ISO/IEC 42001:2023(E)

5.3 Roles, responsibilities and authorities

Top management shall ensure that the responsibilities and authorities for relevant roles are assigned and communicated within the organization.

Top management shall assign the responsibility and authority for:

a) ensuring that the AI management system conforms to the requirements of this document;

b) reporting on the performance of the AI management system to top management.

NOTE A control for defining and allocating roles and responsibilities is provided in A.3.2 in Table A.1. Implementation guidance for this control is provided in B.3.2.

6 Planning

6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities

6.1.1 General

When planning for the AI management system, the organization shall consider the issues referred to in 4.1 and the requirements referred to in 4.2 and determine the risks and opportunities that need to be addressed to:

— give assurance that the AI management system can achieve its intended result(s);
— prevent or reduce undesired effects;
— achieve continual improvement.

The organization shall establish and maintain AI risk criteria that support:

— distinguishing acceptable from non-acceptable risks;
— performing AI risk assessments;
— conducting AI risk treatment;
— assessing AI risk impacts.

NOTE 1 Considerations to determine the amount and type of risk that an organization is willing to pursue or retain are provided in ISO/IEC 38507 and ISO/IEC 23894.

The organization shall determine the risks and opportunities according to:

— the domain and application context of an AI system;
— the intended use;
— the external and internal context described in 4.1.

NOTE 2 More than one AI system can be considered in the scope of the AI management system. In this case the determination of opportunities and uses is performed for each AI system or groupings of AI systems.

The organization shall plan:

a) actions to address these risks and opportunities;
b) how to:
    1) integrate and implement the actions into its AI management system processes;
    2) evaluate the effectiveness of these actions.

8 © ISO/IEC 2023 – All rights reserved